And it's all about it's all about it's
all about Tracy. [singing]
It's all [music] about it's all about
it's all about Joe. How's that?
[music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway
>> and I'm Joe Weisenthal. Joe, we were
doing a Q&A this morning.
>> That's right.
>> It was a lot of fun. Go on.
>> A live Q&A [music]
and someone asked a question about
whether or not we're going to do more
healthcare episodes.
>> And
>> we don't do enough, do we?
>> No, we don't. And there's a reason for
that. Um, I personally am incredibly
intimidated by the US health care
system. I do not understand it at all.
It is just a complete mystery to me. But
I was very happy to say in response to
that question that this same day,
>> that's right,
>> we're actually recording a healthc care
episode uh with someone that we've
wanted to speak to for for a long time.
>> Uh I'm the same way in the sense that
first of all, yes, I'm the same way in
the sense that I really do not know much
about how the health care system works.
I I don't even know where to begin
asking the right questions. This is what
you do. You have to just start a random
episode and that gives you the germs of
the next question, the next episode, the
next episode. But there are so it seems
so big and sprawling etc that what is
the first question to ask. So we just
have to plunge right in and just pick
one which we're doing now and then maybe
that will lead to the string of healthc
care episodes which we should have done
a long time ago.
>> That's exactly right. There's also a lot
of new stuff happening in healthcare at
the moment and we've recorded an episode
on Chinese biotech a little while ago
that was incredibly fascinating.
>> Definitely. I'm very curious to see
what's going on on the US side of
biotech investing and we do have another
episode planned that's sort of
tangentially related to that but clearly
there's a lot to talk about the other
very oddsy thing with this guest is we
like people who have interesting career
histories right
>> that's right how we uh how they got to
where they are today is often a very
interesting question you know I have
nothing against people who just took the
normal path people who just sort of you
went to college and then they got their
MBA and then it's
>> okay you forgive them.
>> I forgive them. That's totally fine. But
it's also interesting to hear about the
people who uh maybe walked in through
the side door so to speak.
>> Absolutely. So we do in fact have the
perfect guest. We have someone who has a
lot of thoughts on US healthcare and who
is also a biotech investor and also
formerly the lead singer of uh Chester
French. So DA Wallik, welcome to the
show. Thanks so much for coming on.
>> Thanks for having me guys. I'm a I'm a
OddLots junkie. So, this is like going
to the Grammys.
>> Amazing.
>> Did you ever win a Grammy?
>> No. [laughter]
>> Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. I shouldn't have I
shouldn't have asked that.
>> Not Not yet is the right answer.
>> Not yet. Not yet. Um I love the piano in
the background by the way. But I guess
my first question should be, can you
talk to us about the throughine between
being a musician and healthcare and how
you and biotech and how you got into
this space? because I think you know
it's not a natural transition to say the
least.
>> Yeah. Well, I'll tell you how I ended up
doing this and then I'll try to connect
them theoretically in some way. It might
be a little tenuous. I've basically had
three careers so far in my limited adult
life. I was a professional rock musician
with the band at that you mentioned for
several years and then I kind of slipped
into the venture capital world when I
invested in Spotify about
>> 13 years ago
>> and that was pretty much the only
company in the private markets I was
well positioned to understand as a
musician
>> and through the success of that I got
turned on to how exciting venture
capital was. started doing other types
of investments across different
industries. Was involved in SpaceX and
Ripple and a bunch of interesting other
startups and then ultimately a guy I
knew started a early stage uh healthcare
company. It was a tele medicine startup
called doctor on demand and tele
medicine at the time was not a hot topic
because this is precoid right
>> so we still primarily went to the doctor
in person and when I made that
investment I started to learn more and
more about our health care system and
was just blown away by how screwed up
and stupid it was and then that
eventually evolved into learning more
about biotechnology and the other
subsectors of healthcare that are
critical to Madison and it's ended up
being what I do. In terms of the
connection between music and any of this
stuff, there are a couple ways I can
think about it. One is I tell people now
my job is like being a record producer
for scientists.
>> So there's a little bit of a parallel
there.
>> But the other is that I think there's a
unique challenge in music to combining
art and commerce.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And in healthare there's a similar
parallel challenge which is how do you
combine medicine and capitalism which
don't naturally go together very well
>> right and I imagine um yeah the the the
producer uh analogy makes a ton of sense
and you know there are probably a lot of
musicians who are really brilliant and
really great musicians but for whatever
reason the lightning doesn't strike
where they are or doesn't strike nearby
and they don't take off probably many
brilliant scientists etc. But the path
from brilliant science to commercial
blockbuster can often I assume be tricky
or dispiriting
uh in many ways etc. Biotech
specifically of all the things in
investing biotech strikes me as this
whole different world than the rest of
like investing you know when I think of
like a software company it's like oh
okay well they've accumulated these
clients and their churn is low etc. Um,
yeah, this seems like a company that has
traction is going to grow. When it comes
to biotech, it's like, okay, here's some
patent on a sequence and maybe 10 years
from now, it'll get approved to
something that'll be a therapy. It seems
so much harder to figure out like what
are the heristics that one would use to
establish this is a likely this science
is likely going to turn into a business.
>> Oh, that's that's absolutely true. I
it's like a completely different
paradigm as an investor. I think the
typical biotech company is like a bag of
options and each one of the drugs that
the company's working on in success
could be worth billions of dollars, but
that's 10 years away often minimum. And
so you're trying to price things based
on their ultimate potential scale times
their probability of succeeding. And
unfortunately the base rates in terms of
probability of success are very low. So
if you take small molecules which is one
major area of drugs the base case is
like a 5% probability of success okay
>> from the original idea to an FDA
approval in a marketed drug. Now you get
to a higher sort of prior probability
with uh antibodies or so-called
biologics other classes of drugs that
are intrinsically more likely to work
than small molecules. But still in every
case you're dealing with very low
probabilities of success. And the entire
challenge as a biotech investor is how
do you manage those low probability
events and build portfolios that are
still likely to make money despite the
fact that each individual project uh is
relatively unlikely to work. I'd say in
tech there's this well-escribed kind of
power law distribution of winners and
losers, which is to say a very small
number of companies make all the money
and pay for the huge number of losers.
In biotech, that's still true to a
degree, but the magnitudes of the
winners are lower. And so a really good
biotech investor probably has a lower
sorry a higher batting average than the
typical tech investor but the wins are
not as big. Mhm. So, one thing I'm
really curious about is how you source
potential investments and how you find,
you know, you use the analogy of the
record producer, how you find talent in
the space or how the talent kind of
finds you and whether or not it's
different from again the sort of
software or or tech space that we
usually talk about when it comes to
venture capital.
You know, when I started doing venture
investing, that was like I said 12, 13
years ago, it was obviously a
wellestablished part of the capital
markets, but you know, I cold emailed
Brian Armstrong from Coinbase and was
meeting with them two days later. And
it's hard to overstate
how much money has rushed in over the
past decade. So what went from being an
established but still kind of marginal
part of the capital markets is now all
anyone thinks or talks about. Yeah.
>> And so in biotech what I found getting
into this area was that it was more like
that venture market I had encountered.
There was a scarcity of capital relative
to the caliber of ideas that were out
there. And so I'd say deal sourcing is
much easier in a sense because there's
less money chasing a huge number of good
ideas. And those ideas by and large do
come out of our university and research
infrastructure here in America.
>> The same is also true in other parts of
the world in Europe, China, India and so
forth. But it's really the translation
of those academic concepts into products
that could make money that is the
challenge. That's the so-called valley
of death that people sometimes talk
about in our industry. Yeah,
>> there are just an immense number of cool
ideas if you go into any university in
our country, but such a small number of
them is ever going to cross that chasm.
And part of that is that the expertise
and the personnel required to do that
translational work is not the same
expertise that is required to do the
inventing in the first place.
>> And so that is really what the large
pharmaceutical companies have a
specialized expertise in. They train
people in this translational work. How
do you go from early science to real
products?
>> Right? When I go to like a typical
venture capitalist website or I see
their Twitter bio or something like
that, it'll say like we back great
founders and I'm like thanks. That's
very helpful because that distinguishes
you from the venture capitalists who
back crappy founders. So I'm glad I'm
going to invest with you instead. What's
the biotech equivalent? What's the
cliche in your industry that every VC
says that ostensibly distinguishes them
from all the others?
>> Well, I'm not sure what the VCs say. I
mean they are kind of commoditized in
the sense that most of the firms look
pretty similar. They employ 30 PhDs and
physicians and the value of those people
is that they can make sense of the
information that you have to process to
invest intelligently in this space. Um
in terms of what distinguishes the
founders that they like to look at, I'd
say again it's kind of the inverse of
what you find in tech. uh there's a real
premium on quote gray hair in the
biotech industry because [clears throat]
the only way to learn this stuff is to
do it over and over again and to have
had a lot of failures. And if you think
about a a software company, the tropes
you are familiar with are, you know,
fail fast, uh pivot, right? You know,
like you launch something, it doesn't
work, you tweak the product design, you
go into a different market, you can
adapt very readily to the market. In
biotech, if you choose to embark upon a
clinical program, you're in for 30 or 40
million bucks, that's not an easy door
to walk back out of.
>> Yeah.
>> And so there's a real premium on people
with experience who have done it
multiple times.
>> That is a little bit at odds in recent
years with a movement that people have,
I think, awkwardly dubbed tech bio
instead of biotech. And really, these
are Silicon Valley tech investors, not
totally unlike myself, who have gotten
into biotech, and they think that what's
about to change is it's going to go the
way of the tech industry, and the next
big companies are going to be started by
really clever 21-year-olds coming out of
Stanford.
>> And that hypothesis, people have been
testing now for a few years. I'd say
it's a little too early to uh issue a
verdict.
That's never really been our theory.
>> Is that hypothesis just predicated on AI
coming in and making you know drug
development easier? Is that all it is?
>> There's a lot of that. Um I'd say there
there are two parts of it. One of it is
maybe more substantive than that and
this is a little nuance but I know
oddlots people like nuance.
>> We love it.
one of the big transformations that
really gave rise to the biotech
industry. And when I use that term
biotech, I'm distinguishing it from big
pharma. So biotech really just means
small drug companies. Many of them are
public.
Um what really gave rise to that
industry was the big pharmas at the
behest of Wall Street
depprioritized early stage research
because Wall Street said you're wasting
a lot of money on this really risky
early stage discovery work. What we
would rather you did was just let all
these crazy guys like DA finance
startups and once they work just buy
them. you know, you're going to pay a
higher price, but you won't be burning
all this money on early stuff. What that
led to was an exodus of very specialized
technical experts from the pharma
companies and it created the so-called
CRO or contract research organization
ecosystem. So you now as a consequence
of that for the past 20 years have had a
very proficient um environment full of
uh contract organizations that you can
hire as a little company to outsource a
lot of work that you couldn't in the
past. So the best analogy to ta to tech
would be sort of like virtual servers or
or cloud infrastructure like you know to
have a startup you used to have all
these servers in your office and then at
some point you didn't need that so the
cost of new company formation went way
down. So part of the argument for
younger more agile founders has been
look we got this whole new kind of
infrastructure through which they can
build companies in a really agile way.
The other argument, you know, exactly to
your question, is around AI. And that
theory is basically, look, these old
people don't understand AI. Let's get
some young Silicon Valley computer
sciency types to do this and they're
going to show them how it's done. I feel
like that's probably a phenomenon that
goes beyond biotech where there's this
fantasy and maybe in some cases it's
even correct but there is this fantasy
that every industry out there must be
dominated by old dinosaurs who don't
know how to use tech and who have been
doing something the same way forever and
so it's the year 2025 it must be out of
date by now and they haven't figured
this out and if we could just
>> cough cough journalism
>> yeah right if we If you [clears throat]
just hire whiz kids, then we could
reinvent the industry from first
principles and just do a much better job
than the legacy things. And I think it's
whether it's healthc care or whether
it's industrial stuff that we see
Silicon Valley getting excited about
right now. It just feels like the
default assumption must be that the
veterans are doing something wrong and
with pure brain power, we can figure out
what that thing is.
I I think that is a reasonable
characterization of what people say
today in a lot of different places and
>> I don't think it's true in my sector.
>> Uh but as with every conversation about
AI, the challenge is balancing two ideas
that can be true at the same time but
seem contradictory. One is that this
stuff is amazing
>> and it is particularly in life sciences
responsible for some true breakthroughs
like the breakthrough that won Demis at
Deep Mind the Nobel Prize last year with
um Alphafold which was this amazing
discovery they made that using machine
learning models you could solve a
problem that had gone unsolved for
decades which was can you predict from
the sequence of a protein's amino acids
what three-dimensional shape a protein
is going to take in a physical
environment.
>> And I just threw around a bunch of terms
of art, but this is fundamental to drug
development and drug discovery. So, it's
like on the one hand, you can't deny
these breakthroughs that we're
experiencing. You can't deny that when
you talk to Gemini, it's staggering what
this thing can do. I mean, I'm sitting
there all day having it teach me about
asset pricing models or whatever else
I'm interested in. But at the same time,
the religious movement that is powering
all of the investment and a lot of the
entrepreneurship here across industries
is full of hot air and is making claims
that are preposterous unless you are a
zealot.
>> Just real quickly, if we had been having
this conversation in a month ago, would
you have said Gemini or would you have
said Chad GPT? because I switched from
CHED GBT to Gemini in the last month and
I'm just curious whether you're this is
what you would have said a month ago.
>> A month ago I was using all of them. Now
I'm only using Gemini.
>> That's interesting. All right. Good data
point. Okay. um talk to us about the
choke points when it comes to new drug
development because I imagine okay maybe
AI machine learning can speed up some of
the research or discovery process but
even after that you have to go through
these really long clinical trials that
in some cases t take decades. What what
are the major I guess like stumbling
blocks to getting something to the
market?
uh your your question held the answer.
Uh so the the process of taking a drug
from idea to the market you can think of
as a funnel to just use a a visual
analogy and into the top of the funnel
go all the millions of ideas that people
have and then as you go down the funnel
you are spending progressively more and
more and more money to prove two things.
The first is that the drug is safe and
won't harm or kill people. And the
second is that the drug works and
actually modifies the disease that
you're trying to treat. And the tragedy
of our moment is that the only way to
figure out if drugs are safe and
effective is to try them in human
beings, living, breathing human beings.
And that is extraordinarily time
consuming and incredibly expensive
financially. So I wish for the day when
AI is able to fully simulate an accurate
human in the computer and we don't need
to do clinical trials on real people.
But until that moment, the vast majority
of the cost and expense and time that is
involved in drug discovery
remains with us.
So most of the AI technologies that
people are excited about really would
have the effect of putting more good
ideas into the top of the funnel. But
unfortunately that doesn't solve a
problem that we have. We already are
drowning in good ideas and the issue is
exactly the choke point or bottleneck
that you're referring to. This is really
there's actually two questions. First of
all, is there lowhanging fruit from a
regulatory side to accelerate that
process? People like to fathom, oh, the
FDA must be super, there's another area
people say, oh, the FDA must be super
slow and do things one way we could
speed this up. I don't know. Is there
somewhere along the process where like
from a regulatory standpoint or some
other thing that the either the cost or
the timelines could shrink or is it
mostly still just the reality of we have
to test these things on humans and
that's costly and it takes time? Well,
we don't need to do anything. We could
have no FDA and anyone who has a good
drug idea just launches it commercially
and if some people die from that and it
doesn't do anything, that's fine. By the
way, that's kind of like the supplement
industry.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, deal with it.
>> Milton Friedman famously thought that
the FDA should only assess the safety of
drugs. Yeah. And if a drug was proven
safe, put it on the market and let the
market dictate whether people determine
they should pay for it based on their
lived experience with whether it works
or not. Now, I just personally prefer to
live in a world where if I've got
something that's going wrong, I can more
or less trust that the product my doctor
gives me has been proven safe and
effective. And that reflects that we
have today a pretty high bar for
approving drugs. But we could certainly
lower that bar. We could change the type
of data that the FDA requires. And
that's what's happening in China. By the
way, I know you mentioned this other
episode you did with my friend Tim.
>> In China, the regulatory environment has
been moving pretty rapidly. And they've
done that deliberately because they want
to be more productive. They want to
approve more drugs and they're trying to
strike that balance between being
prolific and uh holding things to a high
standard at the same time. So, you know,
we'll see.
>> And I just want to follow up on one
other thing you said because I think it
seems important. Someone like Sam Alman
when he talks about the promise of AI, a
lot of it is like, oh, we could find the
next drug that cures cancer. In the
meantime, we're going to make this sort
of slot machine that makes weird videos,
etc. But really, we're trying to find
these wonder drugs in the long term. But
from what it sounds like you said,
candidates are not where the shortage
is. Like the issue is not that we lack a
sufficiently a number of sufficiently
promising molecule combinations. The
scarcity is not on that at that point.
>> That's my view. I mean, I'll steal man.
The other argument. The other argument
would be, well, look, DA, you said 10
minutes ago that these drugs have a 5%
probability of working from the outset.
You know, if we had better predictive
models that told us certain candidates
were much more likely to work than
others, wouldn't that be great? And my
rejoiner to that is yes, but how would
we know that we've done that? Meaning,
if the three of us tomorrow invented a
black box that produced drug candidate
concepts and we were certain that our
model doubled the prior probability from
5% to 10%. That would be a truly
revolutionary innovation on our part.
But how many candidates from that model
would we need to take all the way to an
approval before we had statistically
demonstrated that we in fact increased
the rate of of success.
>> Yeah.
>> So people may have already cracked that
code. You know, Google may have already
cracked that code. Sam Alman may have
cracked that code. But someone's going
to need to spend $30 billion developing
the drug ideas he has before we know
whether he's done that. And until that
money is spent, it's pure conjecture and
salesmanship.
>> How are you actually evaluating
opportunities in the US against China
competition because, you know, if
clinical trials are the major choke
point and if China seems to be trying to
make that process as efficient as
possible, it seems like maybe they have
an advantage.
I mean they definitely have an advantage
and if I had to make a bet today on our
sector it would be that China is going
to be the big story over the next decade
or two.
>> I think it's a fundamental structural
shift in the global biotechnology market
and their advantages are multiple. I
mean their advantages are regulatory.
They relate to the personnel. We have
lost an amazing amount of talent who was
educated here in our graduate schools
and now has gone back to China.
>> And furthermore, they are uh able to
develop things in the clinic, which is
to say do clinical trials a lot faster
and at a much higher volume than our
infrastructure can handle. So they've
got big advantages. Now, how do I think
about investing in the US versus China?
I don't that much because I don't speak
Mandarin and I think it would be really
difficult for me to invest in China
today. But increasingly companies in the
US are starting to outsource certain
parts of the research process to Chinese
companies and increasingly they're going
to outsource parts of the clinical
development process, the clinical trials
to China. That's going to make a huge
impact on the industry.
>> Yeah, this was actually my next
question. Um, I guess how translatable
is a successful clinical trial in China
to a market like the US?
>> Three or four years ago, what both
investors and regulators in the US would
have told you was that it's not that
translatable because they're liars and
they make up all the data and it's
rampant with fraud. And there may have
been some truth to that, but I think
there was also a good amount of racism.
And what sort of woke everyone up in the
past couple of years was that some very
significant clinical trials were done in
China. People were suspicious of the
data. Then they replicated those trials
in Europe or the United States and got
very similar data. And folks thought,
whoa, maybe they're not so bad at this.
So I think decreasingly
people are skeptical and which which
said less awkwardly people are trusting
more and more what's coming out of China
and it's incumbent upon the Chinese to
the extent that they want this to be a
major strategy to continue uh enhancing
people's trust in the quality of their
work and their data. Um if they can do
that I think it's a global industry. A
lot of the companies are multinationals.
They don't care if the drug comes out of
the US or comes out of China.
>> Um, this isn't really a question about
private or VC stage investing per se,
but about biotech more broadly. You
know, there are some sickos out there on
the internet who like trade bio trade
retail traders who trade uh biotech
stocks. And again, this is I've never
I've talked, you know, I've covered the
stock market for a long time in various
ways. I've never spent any time really
getting to know a publicly traded
biotech stock. Is are you insane to try
to invest in biotech if you don't have
PhD level understanding of biology? Like
can anyone have alpha in this industry
if they don't actually know science?
>> I think it's tough.
>> Yeah. Seems very tough to me.
>> Yeah. I mean, here's the thing. What's
really interesting about biotech in the
public markets is it's abundantly clear
that active investors can have alpha in
biotech
>> whereas as you guys know that is not
clear
>> in the rest of the public equity
landscape. And so whereas there is very
little uh if not negative persistence of
performance among active equity managers
broadly in biotech you have a small
number of firms that have been doing
great for sometimes decades
>> and they all have real science expertise
on staff. They do and and you know the
dynamic between them and the generalists
so to speak is that they do a lot of
very detailed work to make sense of the
information you need to process to value
these companies and to assess their
probability of success and then the
generalists often follow those
specialists into these names and the
fortunes of the industry in these cycles
like we're coming out of a four-year
great depression for biotech I should
just mention
A lot of those fortunes ride on the
sector rotations of the generalists. So
the specialists have to stick with
biotech because that's what they do. But
whether or not companies can IPO whether
or not companies can fund their next
clinical trial is largely a function of
whether the generalists are in the
sector at that moment or not. And we're
just in the midst of the early rotation
of generalists back into biotech. Wait,
the biotech investing downturn, was that
just a function of higher interest rates
or was something else going on?
>> It was a confluence of everything that
could go wrong at the same time. It was
higher interest rates which really
punish these biotech stocks relative to
other companies because you know no cash
flows for 10 years and then a big
bololis of money. So these companies are
very sensitive to discount rates.
>> Yeah. Um add to that this dynamic where
the generalists had gotten out of the
sector that ultimately is fatal and then
uh consider the fact that we had such a
comedown after the sugar high of co. So
obviously during co there was this
moment of clarity where everyone
>> for a second recognized that this sector
is for each of us at some point in our
lives the most important thing that
happens in the global economy. Like
without the biotech industry, you know,
we're all in trouble. And we kind of go
through life pretending like we're never
going to need this industry. And then
you get cancer or your dad gets cancer.
>> Your kid gets some rare disease and you
go, "Holy cow, I wish I had thought
about this before. Maybe all these
people who are doing this with their
lives are not evil blood suckers who
Bernie Sanders needs to take down." And
you know that is uh I think part of what
dawned on people during COVID when we
all were vulnerable and we all were
yearning for a solution.
>> Talk a little bit more about I guess the
the financial incentives about actually
developing new drugs. So, we we all know
the story of if you're based in the US,
you can go to Mexico or wherever else
and buy the same medicine for like five
bucks as opposed to $500 or perhaps even
more in the US. And the argument for
that seems to be that well, you know,
the big pharma companies need to be
rewarded for all the research and the
effort and the risk that they actually
take on. And for some reason the US
seems to be the designated place to do
that. But like why why is my question.
Why US drug pricing?
>> Well the the big bounty for a drug
development company is the United States
market.
>> And that's partly because we as a
society have decided that we want all
the new most advanced drugs. We want
them first and we don't want to deny
them to people who could benefit from
them. Now, the price we pay for those
commitments is that our drug prices are
higher than the prices in other
countries. And the reason their prices
are lower is because their governments
choose which drugs their people will
have access to. And they make those
choices and then negotiate the prices
with the companies. and they basically
will say to Fizer or Astroenica look if
you want your drug sold here in Japan
you're going to take the price that we
give you and then the pharma company
decides whether they want to accept that
deal or not. Now the United States
absolutely could choose as a
civilization to negotiate in that same
manner. Our government could make the
choice for us as to exactly what we're
willing to pay for every drug. There
would be two consequences to that. One
is that we would go without certain
drugs.
>> The second is that a lot of drugs would
not even be developed in the first place
because the total pool of profits
available to drug companies would be
much smaller. And so I don't know that
there's any perfect answer to how much
pharmaceutical innovation we should have
in the world. We get to choose how much
innovation we want to occur. And the way
we choose that is by determining the
size of that bounty that exists. How big
is the profit pool we want to allow for
innovative drug development? And a lot
of that is driven by our patent law.
Remember, a patent in this industry is a
legalized monopoly. So, we give drug
companies a legal monopoly for a limited
period of time, and that dictates how
much money they're able to make off of a
new drug. We could shorten the patent
life and that would reduce the profit
pool and you'd have less drug
development. We could remove the patent
life. You could have a permanent
monopoly and believe me, the industry
would double or triple overnight.
[laughter]
So, it's a choice we have to make and
it's a civic choice. You mentioned the
Bernie Sanders of the world who uh they
look at the profits of drug companies or
they look at the prices of drugs and um
you know if perhaps if they got their
way there would be less investment in
drug discovery etc. at all maybe less
profits you going back to co however
there was also the backlash on the other
side essentially just this deep
skepticism towards the premise of pharma
and that what are these scientists doing
and why don't they tell you about this
root that people have used for thousands
of years that cured these diseases that
they don't want you to know about so
that they can sell you stuff. talk to us
about like just the sort of political
environ investing in biotech in a
political environment where a growing
number of people frankly seem to
distrust the premise of scientific
expertise.
Look, it's tough and some of the blame
certainly belongs with the scientific
community because you know to the extent
that say in the early days of co
communication with the public about say
the value of masks was not clear and it
was maybe even misleading. Yeah.
>> Some of the presentation of data
regarding the efficacy of the vaccines
was not transparent and that eroded the
public's trust in a very understandable
way. Now, I'm no apologist for medicine
or science because I don't think these
are privileged priesthoods. I think
every person should be able to be
engaged in and understand science and
medicine. And unfortunately, the entire
history of medicine began with medical
science as total witchcraft and sorcery.
So if you go back to antiquity, the
first people calling themselves doctors
objectively understood nothing.
>> Yeah.
>> So this was pure sophistry from the
beginning. And we are on this long
journey through which medicine is going
from total BS and witchcraft to slowly
turning into a real science. Something
that deserves to be called science.
medicine is filled with common practices
that are not rigorously based on
evidence and that is symptomatic of
where we are in that journey that I'm
describing. So I'm an advocate for
medicine becoming always more and more
scientific. I believe that scientific
policy makers, scientists in academia
need to do a much better job
communicating transparently and that's
the only way to engender that kind of
trust you're talking about Joe and the
trust is critical because it is what
gives permission to this industry's
existence. Wait, talk more about I guess
autonomy when it comes to medical
decisions because this is, you know, a
big culture shock of non-Americans who
come to the US is drug adverts on TV
where they, you know, here's this great
drug and then they read off all the uh
risk factors really really quickly and
one of the risks is always death or
severe brain damage or something like
that.
>> Suicidal tendency.
>> Yeah. And I'm always like, again, I I've
never asked for a drug that I've seen on
TV. Um I do remember when I when I first
came to the US as an adult. I went to
get a prescription. I found a new doctor
to do that. Um and I said, "I needed
this thing." And the doctor was like,
"Oh, well, we have to run all these
medical tests before we can give you
that." And it ended up in a big argument
with my insurance provider. And I
remember talking to people about that
and they were like, "Well, you should
have pushed back against the doctor
about the testing and I was like, what
do I know? I just do what the doctor
tells me." Right? How much say should
people actually h It sounds weird, but
you know, given the lack of experience
and given the way other systems work um
around the world, how much say should
people have in their own medical
treatment?
>> I think ultimately they should have
almost all of the say. It's your body.
Ultimately, you have to make the best
decision you can make and you should
regard physicians, nurses, others in the
system as consultants who support you in
making wise decisions. Uh the the one
caveat there, however, is that we do
socialize a lot of our medical costs and
in many other countries they completely
socialize medical costs. And to the
extent that you want the rest of us to
pay for your medical care, I do believe
we need to have some standards around
what it's appropriate to pay for.
>> Yeah. I mean, at the moment, it seems
like most of those decisions are left up
to the insurers, which again in other
places in the world, it would be left up
to um to the governments to make those
decisions. Uh are are insurers the sort
of another limiting factor here?
>> I believe they are. I believe the
private insurance industry adds zero
value to the United States healthcare
system. Almost that I may slightly
overstate it, but it's close to zero in
my book. And I really don't believe
insurance companies ought to be the ones
making decisions about what medical care
is appropriate.
>> Um I noticed there in the video you have
a really nice looking microphone. Is
that like a Is that a uh Is that a
musical? Is that a microphone for
recording music?
>> Yeah, this is This is the one I uh This
is the one I sing on.
>> It's It's First of all, you sound good,
but it also looks a lot cooler than the
typical microphone that are uh that our
guests use. Do you do you Are you still
Are you still playing much music?
>> I do, but but thankfully now it's just
for fun, not for money, which is a much
more comfortable place for it to live in
my life. Are you um do you think at all
about uh AI generated music and uh the
effect that that's going to have on
musicians? This I feel like a lot of
musicians like the ones that I follow on
Instagram is there's a lot of anxiety
about this.
>> There is anxiety and look I mean it's
really hard to make a living as a
musician.
>> Yeah. Now, it's always been really hard.
And you know, I can't imagine what the
lifestyle was of a loot player in George
I's royal court or something, but you
know, it's a tough business and it is
scary when new technology comes on the
scene that might change the way you make
money as an artist. I lived through that
with Spotify. People were terrified of
it and you know, fortunately, what it
did over time,
>> they should have all done what you did
get long Spotify and then hedge their
own risk to it. But keep going.
>> Looks spot Spotify
by multiples increased the total revenue
of the recorded music business which was
the goal.
>> So mission accomplished. Now
look AI is going to make music and uh I
think like all creative people like
journalists like investors everyone's
going to think about how they can use it
to be more effective have more leverage
have a cooler output. I mean, I have
very little doubt that artists are going
to do unbelievably cool and original
stuff with AI tools, and it's already
happening. And for whatever reason, I
have very little trepidation that
they're going to be put out of business
because I think ultimately music is
communication. Real quickly on that,
when you talk about like doing
unbelievably cool things with music, so
I see in the background you have a piano
for example and one of the things when I
think about AI music is and actually I
think like for example the founder of
Suno and some of these other AI uh music
companies have talked about this is like
well music learning to play instruments
is really hard and therefore can we
separate in some way the craft of music
the hours that someone has to spend just
doing scales on the piano before they
and compose something. Maybe you could
what wouldn't it be nice if we could
just have amazing beautiful piano
sonatas without ever having to had both
put in those thousands of hours you know
Mary had a little lamb and then so forth
but it does raise the question to my
mind of whether one can create great art
if they never had to learn the craft.
I think
the nuance with which one can
communicate through music
is a function of how many options
you perceive.
>> Okay?
>> In other words, if you know the piano
inside out, you're aware of so many
creative choices that are at your
disposal at any given moment. And if
your ability to express yourself is
squeezed down to what you can put into a
natural language prompt.
>> Yes.
>> Now those musical ideas are having to
pass through the medium of language
>> to be realized.
>> And that inherently
>> erodess the resolution and the
expansiveness with which you can express
yourself.
>> Yeah. I feel like there's a danger here
that you go off on a big orality tangent
and whether ideas can exist without
words and things like that.
>> No, but I do think this is this this
that answer is very insightful. Like,
can you actually create great piano
music if you don't know the limits of
what the piano can do? And if you're
only trying to describe in language,
make this beautiful sonata. I think
that's very tough. And I thought that
answer made a lot of sense.
>> Um, DA, we're gonna have to wrap it up
soon. I have one last question and I'm
gonna kind of I'm gonna put you on the
spot.
>> Can you can you sing a little OddLot
song for us? [laughter] Like three bars
of an OddLot song. I don't care if you
generate it with, you know, I guess
Gemini now, but
>> do you think you could?
>> Let's see. I mean,
>> oh wow.
>> I'm gonna turn this on.
>> Let's see here.
>> Oh, this is really cool.
>> Yeah, if you can,
>> for those who aren't watching the video.
So, he's moving his microphone.
He's moving his microphone to his
keyboard.
>> Okay. Can you see me?
>> Yeah. Yeah, it's great. Yeah, go for it.
>> Here. Okay. We're gonna try.
>> And it's all about It's all [singing]
about It's all about Tracy.
It's all [singing] about It's all about
It's all about Joe.
>> How's that?
>> Pretty good.
>> That You have You have a great voice.
Yeah, it is.
>> If you ever want to compose an outro
song for us or something like that,
>> I would love to. I'm I'm I am the
composer of two or three podcast theme
songs.
>> Oh,
>> and uh I have to say I love your guys
theme music. It
>> it gets me [laughter] excited and I got
to end on this for you guys.
>> You know, in high school, the reason I
got into investing in high school, I was
an economics nerd.
>> Oh, yeah. I heard I heard that you
actually wrote like some a paper that
won like a prize from the Fed or
something like that. The Federal Reserve
had this nerd competition they sponsored
called Fed Challenge and I was the
captain of my high school team one year
and we got to DC and we we saw Greenspan
walk out with his wisened face and hands
and anyways um if I had had OddLots to
listen to in high school, man, I would
have been in heaven [laughter] because
you guys touch on so much interesting
stuff and this just has to be the most
exciting thing for young people to uh
experience in order to get turned on to
business and economics and finance and
recognize these aren't just boring, you
know, stayed topics. They're
fascinating.
>> No, thank you for saying that. I really
appreciate it. And also, thank you for
singing for us. I think that was an all
thoughts first.
>> That was a first. Yeah. So,
>> yeah. Well, on the spot. I know we've
had um Merl Hazard, the
>> country singing economist on before, but
that was fantastic. Da Wallik, thank you
so much for coming on the show. Really
appreciate it.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> That was really interesting, Joe.
>> That was super fun. He was great. who's
also pretty good at um you know I know
again he said it was tenuous but the
through line from music to biotech kind
of makes sense
>> I think it makes a lot of sense and the
especially the fact that um you know
these are extreme these are all startup
investing as we know you know there's
this power law phenomenon where one of
your 20 portfolio companies going to
make all the money
>> yeah the lottery ticket
>> but you know like biotech is like
lottery tickets upon lottery tickets
there's so much success uncertain
certainty
>> lottery tickets with lower payouts as
well.
>> With lower payouts, there's so much
success uncertainty. There's so much
time that elapses between the initial
work and where you have see if there's
any signals of traction. It does feel a
lot like the uncertainty that exists in
the music industry and selecting like
which of these hundred bands that all
sound great and they're all really
talented actually has what it takes to
be a commercial hit. A lot of parallels.
Yeah, I thought the the dinosaur bias
point was an interesting one as well
because you can imagine like
>> again to the timeline point,
>> you kind of have to be old to have any
success in the industry historically
just because it can take you know a
decade to get a particular drug to
market. So you don't have that much
opportunity to have, you know, those
wins unless you get old.
>> And there's no shortage. There's no, you
know, there may be regulatory things
that can be done, but fundamentally, if
you want to know whether something works
and if you want to know whether this
drug is going to kill people who take it
or not and whether it's safe or not,
there is no substitute for doing a test
and seeing what uh what happens. And to
to your point or to your observation
about the dinosaurs, like I do think
that lots of people have this fantasy
that anytime there was a legacy industry
of any sort that if you just got 21 year
olds from Stanford in the same room,
>> they gave them a garage to work,
>> gave them a garage that they would do it
a lot better than the veterans, that was
the Doge premise. And uh Doge doesn't
exist anymore. So
>> yep. All right. Shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the Odd
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway.
>> And I'm Jill Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest DA
Wallak. He's at DA Wallak. Follow our
producers Kerman Rodriguez at Kerman
Arman, Dashel Bennett at Dashbot, and
Kaleb Brooks at Kaleb Brooks.
>> And for more OddLots content, you should
definitely check out our daily
newsletter. You can find that at
bloomberg.comlotss.
>> And you can join fellow listeners in
conversation 247 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlots.
And if you enjoyed this conversation,
please like the video or leave a comment
or better yet, subscribe.
>> Thanks for watching.
[music]